---
title:   News of 2016
author:    chrisbasoglu
date:    01/16/2017
ms.author:   cbasoglu
ms.date:   01/16/2017
ms.custom:   cognitive-toolkit
ms.topic:   conceptual
ms.service:  Cognitive-services
ms.devlang:   NA
---

# News of 2016
**This are archived News of 2016.   
See the actual news at [this page](./News.md).**

## December 2016
***2016-12-22.*** V 2.0 Beta 7 Release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Python API behaviour is changed to be more strict.
* New Examples and Tutorials ([Artistic Style Transfer](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/blob/v2.0.beta7.0/Tutorials/CNTK_205_Artistic_Style_Transfer.ipynb)
and [GoogLeNet (Inception V3)](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/tree/v2.0.beta7.0/Examples/Image/Classification/GoogLeNet)
).
* New version of CNTK Evaluation library NuGet Package.
* CNTK Background Improvements.

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_7_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-12-13.*** V 2.0 Beta 6 Release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Both Windows and Linux packages are now created using NVIDIA CUDA 8.0 toolkit.
* Linux version now supports Python 3.5 (Windows support is coming soon).
* Support for training on one-hot and sparse arrays via NumPy.
* New Examples and Tutorials: [Video action recognition](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/tree/v2.0.beta6.0/Examples/Video/GettingStarted), [Finance Timeseries with Pandas/Numpy](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/blob/v2.0.beta6.0/Tutorials/CNTK_104_Finance_Timeseries_Basic_with_Pandas_Numpy.ipynb), [Neural Character Language Models](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/tree/v2.0.beta6.0/Examples/Text/CharacterLM/README.md)
* Stability Improvements and bug fixes.

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_6_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

## November 2016
***2016-11-25.*** V 2.0 Beta 5 Release  
Highlights of this Release:
* The Windows binary packages are now created using the NVIDIA CUDA 8 toolkit, see the [release notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_5_Release_Notes.md) for details. The CNTK-Linux binary packages are still built with CUDA 7.5. The Linux support for Cuda8 will follow shortly!
* Performance enhancements for evaluation of bitmap images through the new `EvaluateRgbImage` function in the [managed Eval API](./EvalDll-Managed-API.md).
* A new version of the [CNTK Nuget package](./NuGet-Package.md) is available. 
* Stability Improvements and bug fixes, i.e. decreased memory footprint in CNTK Text Format deserializer. 
* We continue to improve documentation and tutorials on an ongoing basis, in this release we added a [Sequence-to-Sequence tutorial](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/blob/v2.0.beta5.0/Tutorials/CNTK_204_Sequence_To_Sequence.ipynb).

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_5_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-11-21.*** V 2.0 Beta 4 Release  
Highlights of this Release:
* New ASGD/Hogwild! training using Microsoft’s Parameter Server ([Project Multiverso](https://github.com/Microsoft/multiverso))
* Distributed Scenarios now supported in CNTK Python API
* New [Memory Compression](./BrainScript-Top-level-configurations.md) mode to reduce memory usage on GPU
* CNTK Docker image with 1bit-SGD support
* Stability Improvements and bug fixes

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_4_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-11-11.*** V 2.0 Beta 3 Release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Integration with [NVIDIA NCCL](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nccl). Works with Linux when building CNTK from sources. See here [how to enable](./Setup-CNTK-on-Linux.md#optional-nccl)
* The first V.2.0 Prerelease Nuget Package for CNTK Evaluation library
* Stability Improvements and bug fixes

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_3_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-11-03.*** V 2.0 Beta 2 Release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Feature tuning and bug fixing based on the feedback on Beta 1
* Changes in the Examples and Tutorials based on the same feedback
* New [Tutorial on Reinforcement Learning](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/blob/v2.0.beta2.0/bindings/python/tutorials/CNTK_203_Reinforcement_Learning_Basics.ipynb)

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_2_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

## October 2016
***2016-10-25.*** New CNTK Name, new Web Site and V 2.0 Beta 1 Release  

CNTK becomes **The Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit**. See more at our [new Web Site](https://msrstagingredirect.azurewebsites.net/en-us/cognitive-toolkit/).

With the today's Release we start delivering CNTK V2 - a major upgrade of Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit.

Expect a set of Beta Releases in the Coming Weeks.

Highlights of this Release:
* CNTK can now be used as a library with [brand new C++ and Python APIs](./CNTK-Library-API.md)
* New Python Examples and Tutorials
* Support of Protocol Buffers serialization
* Support of Fast R-CNN algorithm
* New automated installation procedures
* Improvements in CNTK Evaluation library including support of CNTK APIs

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_2_0_beta_1_Release_Notes.md). You will find there links to the materials about the new features.  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-10-03.*** V 1.7.2 Binary release  
**This is a Hot Fix Release. It affects all users of Model Evaluation Library**

If you are NOT using Model Evaluation Library you may skip this release.  
If you ARE using Model Evaluation Library we **strongly recommend** installing version 1.7.2 instead of **any** previous version you might be using.

See [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_1_7_2_Release_Notes.md) for details.

## September 2016
***2016-09-28.*** V 1.7.1 Binary release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Two Breaking Changes related to Layers library default initialization and ```fsAdagrad``` gradient-normalization scheme
* Improvements in BrainScript
* Enabling of Deterministic Algorithm enforcement
* Improvements in Model Evaluation including the support of Evaluation for Azure Applications
* Different Performance improvements
* Multiple bug fixes

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_1_7_1_Release_Notes.md) (including the full list of bugs fixed)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

## August 2016
***2016-08-31.*** V 1.7 Binary release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Improvements in BrainScript (new library of predefined common layer types; common random-initialization types; GRUs)
* Support of NVIDIA cuDNN 5.1 and cuDNN RNN
* Improvements in readers and deserializers
* Additions to Evaluator library (Eval Client Sample, strong name for EvalWrapper)
* New unit tests incl. Linux support
* Python API Preview (since V.1.5)
* Multiple bug fixes

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_1_7_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-08-29.*** Two new Tutorials are available:  
[Image recognition](./Hands-On-Labs-Image-Recognition.md) (CIFAR-10) and [Language understanding](./Hands-On-Labs-Language-Understanding.md) (ATIS).

***2016-08-10.*** We have significantly simplified handling of **Gated Recurrent Units (GRU)**. Read more in the [corresponding article](https://msrstagingredirect.azurewebsites.net/en-us/cognitive-toolkit/2016/08/grus-on-cntk-with-brainscript/).

## July 2016
***2016-07-15.*** V 1.6 Binary release  
Highlights of this Release:
* Deconvolution and Unpooling operations
* MKL Support (improved CPU performance)
* CNTK Model Evaluation runtime library for Windows and Linux
* OpenCV 3.1 (more efficient image preprocessing)
* Simple Python support
* Various bug fixes & optimizations

See more in the [Release Notes](./ReleaseNotes/CNTK_1_6_Release_Notes.md)  
Get the Release from the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-07-12.*** We have further expanded Licensing options for CNTK 1bit-SGD and related components. See the details at the [Wiki page](./CNTK-1bit-SGD-License.md). These new options are an extension of the new CNTK 1bit-SGD License that we have announced on Jun 23, 2016.

***2016-07-05.*** CNTK now supports *Deconvolution* and *Unpooling*.

## June 2016
***2016-06-23.*** New License Terms for CNTK 1bit-SGD and related components.  
Effective immediately the License Terms for CNTK 1bit-SGD and related components have changed. The new Terms provide more flexibility and enable new usage scenarios, especially in commercial environments. Read the new Terms at the [standard location](https://cntk1bitsgd.codeplex.com/license). Please note, that while the new Terms are significantly more flexible comparing to the previous ones, they are still **more restrictive** than the main CNTK License. Consequently everything described in [Enabling 1bit-SGD](./Enabling-1bit-SGD.md) section of the Wiki remains valid.

***2016-06-20.*** A [post](http://itpeernetwork.intel.com/accelerating-the-computational-network-tool-kit-with-intel-mkl/) on Intel MKL and CNTK is published in the [Intel IT Peer Network](http://itpeernetwork.intel.com/accelerating-the-computational-network-tool-kit-with-intel-mkl/)

***2016-06-16.*** V 1.5 Binary release. NuGet Package with CNTK Model Evaluation Libraries.  
NuGet Package is added to CNTK v.1.5 binaries. See [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases) and [NuGet Package description](./Nuget-Package.md).

***2016-06-15.***  CNTK now supports building against a custom Intel® Math Kernel Library (MKL).
See [setup instructions](./Setup-CNTK-on-your-machine.md) on how to set this up for your platform.

***2016-06-10.*** See CNTK v.1.5 binary release announcement in the official [Microsoft Research Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/msr_er/2016/06/10/microsoft-improves-programming-flexibility-of-its-ai-toolkit/)

***2016-06-08.*** V 1.5 Binary release  
CNTK v.1.5 binaries are on the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-06-01.*** An updated version of the network-description language has been made available under the new [BrainScript Network Builder](./BrainScript-Network-Builder.md), which features full expression parsing, recursive functions, and more.

## May 2016
***2016-05-19.*** A 1-hour talk describing CNTK, how to use it, and how it works, has been posted at [Presentations](./Presentations.md).

***2016-05-16.*** An example illustrating [Using CNTK with ResNet](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/tree/master/Examples/Image/Classification/ResNet) is added to the codebase. The example contains some pre-trained models that can be used in various applications.

***2016-05-16.*** CNTK Wiki now has [FAQ Page](./CNTK-FAQ.md)

***2016-05-05.*** CNTK now supports *BlockMomentum* Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) algorithm.  
See the details in the [Multiple GPUs and machines Wiki section](./Multiple-GPUs-and-machines.md)

***2016-05-03.*** New transformations are implemented for **Image Reader**.  
See the description in the [Image Reader Wiki section](./BrainScript-Image-reader.md)


## April 2016
***2016-04-25.*** V 1.1 Binary release  
CNTK v.1.1 binaries are on the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

***2016-04-12.*** CNTK is available as [Azure Virtual Machines](./CNTK-on-Azure.md) and [Docker Containers](./CNTK-Docker-Containers.md)


***2016-04-12.*** Added support for ND convolution and ND pooling and CPU support for `cudnn` layout in convolution, pooling and batch normalization nodes.  
Read [documentation](./BrainScript-Full-Function-Reference.md) on convolution, pooling and batch normalization nodes.

***2016-04-05.*** CUDA7.5 support for Windows Build: Windows project files have been updated to automatically utilize CUDA 7.5 if present

## March 2016
***2016-03-24.*** New Text Reader (CNTKTextFormatReader) is available  
Read description here (./BrainScript-CNTKTextFormat-Reader.md)

## February 2016
***2016-02-29.*** Added ZIP files support to the ImageReader  
Examples: (./BrainScript-Image-reader.md)  
Updated build steps at (./Setup-CNTK-on-your-machine.md)
     
***2016-02-29.*** Added documentation for the ImageReader
./Image-reader

***2016-02-17.*** CNTK Contribution Guidelines are published  
Check it out here: (./Contributing-to-CNTK.md)

***2016-02-15.*** The first part of CNTK tutorial is published.  
You can find it here: (./Tutorial.md)

***2016-02-10.*** Binary release  
Most up-to-date binaries are on the [CNTK Releases page](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/releases)

## January 2016
***2016-01-26.*** First binary release after the move to GitHub is published (GPU only).

***2016-01-25 13:00 GMT.*** CNTK new repository in GitHub went public! Together with GitHub repository a new CNTK web site http://www.cntk.ai/ also became available.